---
title: 'Shift FAQs'
date: 2022-01-13 00:00:00
description: All your questions about Shift SC's recruitment, cohort, and community, answered❗️
featured_image: '/images/swirl-logo/lavendar-swirl.png'
interior_image: '/images/swirl-logo/swirly-gray-2.png'
---



## General ❓

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: I haven't heard of Shift SC before. Are you guys new around here?</b> <br>
A: Yup! Our preparation semester was Fall 21, and this Spring 2022 we're bringing in our first cohort ever. Exciting stuff, right?

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: Do I need to be a member to get involved in Shift initiatives and events?</b> <br>
A: Not at all! Most of the initiatives Shift puts on are designed for the entire USC community in mind so that anyone can get involved. Several of our initiatives are open-event based, such as FIX Workshops, Digital Well-Being Workshops, and the annual Tech4Good Student Symposium, whereas our curriculum will have limited registration. Being a member of Shift just means you'll be on the team *leading* those initiatives.

---


## Recruitment 📄

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: How many students do you accept for each cohort?</b> <br>
A: We are planning to accept around 20 students for this upcoming cohort. We don't a have hard cutoff, though—we welcome whoever we think would be a good fit. As a brand new student org, we aim to keep our cohort relatively small to build a tight-knit community and make sure everyone can make meaningful contributions to Shift's mission.

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: What are some tips for the application process?</b> <br>
A: ~~Be yourself!~~ In line with our mission, we really want to hear why human-centered and socially responsible technology is important to you. There are many subfields within this broader domain, so help us get an idea of what issue you care most about and why it matters to you.

On top of that, we plan to consider how involved applicants have been with Shift initiatives in previous semesters and give extra consideraiton to repeat applicants. If you don't get accepted, demonstrating your interest in Shift's initiates will help a lot for next semester.

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: How do I know which initiative I'll be working on?</b> <br>
A: In our application you'll select the three teams which you would most like to contribute to. During interviews we consider you for one or two of those three teams and then ultimately place you on one for the semester. You can safely bet that you'll join one of the top three teams you pref.

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: In the application, why do you care what my thoughts on avocados are?</b> <br>
A: Avocados are currently a contentious topic within Shift and your opinions will help us settle this debate. Thank you 🥑

---

## Cohort 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: What level of commitment should I expect for my cohort semester in Shift?</b> <br>
A: During your semester as a Shiftie, you’ll contribute around 3 hours per week: 1 hour for our general meeting, and 2 hours for work specific to your role. Outside of that, we run weekly lunch buddies 🍱, offer several book clubs related to the ethics and future of tech, host socials, and run a semesterly retreat 🥳. We also hope to see you at our campus-wide initiatives that your fellow Shifties will be leading.

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: Can I start my own initiative at some point?</b> <br>
A: Absolutely! While we'll just be working on the initiatives already displayed on our website this upcoming semester, our goal is to offer more down the road as our community grows. Ultimately, Shift SC is an umbrella platform for all sorts of campus efforts towards a "technological future better aligned with human values."  

<b style="color:#B082E0">Q: What happens after I graduate with my cohort?</b> <br>
A: After you graduate, you’ll still remain a part of the Shift Family and can come through all socials, book clubs, and retreats. If you wish to continue actively contributing to initiatives, you can apply to lead an initiative the following semester or even start your own!